---
layout: post
title: Faalis v2
date: 2015-12-21 21:32
categories: Ruby Rails Faalis
tags: Gem Faalis
author: lxsameer
description: Faalis v2
---

It's been about a year since we started working on the second major version of
[Faalis](http://faalis.io) and finally we released v2 yesterday. This release introduce
a complete set of new features something near a rewrite.

## What changed
Let's take a look at changes in compare to previous versions.

### Dashboard Interface & Turbolinks
Maybe the most important change introduced in v2.x in compare to 0.x, and 1.x is the
**new dashboard**. Previous dashboard system was a javascript application based on
AngularJS library. At first when we developed the old dashboard, world still did not
find out about the dark side of AngularJS and every one was so happy with it, but after
a while every one including us begin to realise that AngularJS 1.x has some very serious
issues. For example "angular world" was a huge pain in the ass. Long story short we decided
to not to continue with AngularJS. Our most important reasons were:

* Handling two different application code base takes too much energy.
* Our assets got too big.
* We ended up with a giant JS application which was too slow.
* The damn "Angular World" which caused us lots of work and pain.
* JS application got complex and after a while debugging it was so hard
* And finally [Turbolinks](https://github.com/rails/turbolinks) rocks.

The above reasons were enough to drive me crazy. In that time I suddenly remembered something
important by watching [@dhh](http://david.heinemeierhansson.com/) keynote
[talk](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KJVTM7mE1Cc) on RailsConf 2015. I was totally forgot about
how awesome [Turbolinks](https://github.com/rails/turbolinks) can be. In the past I was ignorant about
**Turbolinks** simply because it was'nt that good at the time being.

After spending a little time to update my knowledge about Turbolinks, I get to work and
created a very basic prototype of **Faalis** dashboard to see how can it be helpful to us.
After a while it was clear to me the blue sky that **IT'S WHAT WE NEED**.

Thanks to Turbolinks we get ride of our huge AngularJS application and replaced it
with very small amount of javascript code. Our Assets size reduced by about 95% specially
in bigger projects. And maaaan it's fast too. But the most awesome experience with turbolinks
in compare to "AngularJS" or any other similar frameworks is that it's **railsy** you just
write ruby and js code in rails fasions nothing special. This feels great.

It **Faalis 2.x**, we re-write dashboard subsystem entirely. Now:

* It's much smaller
* It's much faster
* It's easier to work with dashboard UI API
* Generate code for each resource reduced to minimum.
* Everything is in the same Rails application code base.

New dashboard feels great.

### Dashboard Interface & AdminLTE
